1. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2015 Jun;135(6):1654-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jaci.2015.01.024. 
Epub 2015 Mar 11.

Gut microbiome variations during hematopoietic stem cell transplant in severe
combined immunodeficiency.

Lane JP(1), Stewart CJ(2), Cummings SP(2), Gennery AR(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne,
United Kingdom. Electronic address: jonathan.lane2@ncl.ac.uk. (2)Faculty of
Health and Life Sciences, University of Northumbria, Newcastle upon Tyne, United 
Kingdom. (3)Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon 
Tyne, United Kingdom.

PMID: 25769913  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Blood. 2014 Aug 14;124(7):1174-82. doi: 10.1182/blood-2014-02-554725. Epub 2014
Jun 17.

The effects of intestinal tract bacterial diversity on mortality following
allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

Taur Y(1), Jenq RR(2), Perales MA(3), Littmann ER(4), Morjaria S(4), Ling L(5),
No D(5), Gobourne A(5), Viale A(6), Dahi PB(3), Ponce DM(3), Barker JN(3), Giralt
S(3), van den Brink M(7), Pamer EG(8).

Author information: 
(1)Infectious Disease Service, Department of Medicine, and Lucille Castori Center
for Microbes, Inflammation and Cancer, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center,
New York, NY; Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY; (2)Lucille Castori
Center for Microbes, Inflammation and Cancer, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer
Center, New York, NY; Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY; Adult Bone
Marrow Transplant Service, Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center, New York, NY; and. (3)Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY;
Adult Bone Marrow Transplant Service, Department of Medicine, Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY; and. (4)Infectious Disease Service, 
Department of Medicine, and. (5)Lucille Castori Center for Microbes, Inflammation
and Cancer, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY; (6)Genomics
Core Laboratory and. (7)Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY; Adult Bone
Marrow Transplant Service, Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center, New York, NY; and Immunology Program, Sloan-Kettering Institute,
New York, NY. (8)Infectious Disease Service, Department of Medicine, and Lucille 
Castori Center for Microbes, Inflammation and Cancer, Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center, New York, NY; Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY;
Immunology Program, Sloan-Kettering Institute, New York, NY.

Comment in
    Blood. 2014 Aug 14;124(7):995-6.

Highly diverse bacterial populations inhabit the gastrointestinal tract and
modulate host inflammation and promote immune tolerance. In allogeneic
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT), the gastrointestinal mucosa 
is damaged, and colonizing bacteria are impacted, leading to an impaired
intestinal microbiota with reduced diversity. We examined the impact of
intestinal diversity on subsequent mortality outcomes following transplantation. 
Fecal specimens were collected from 80 recipients of allo-HSCT at the time of
stem cell engraftment. Bacterial 16S rRNA gene sequences were characterized, and 
microbial diversity was estimated using the inverse Simpson index. Subjects were 
classified into high, intermediate, and low diversity groups and assessed for
differences in outcomes. Mortality outcomes were significantly worse in patients 
with lower intestinal diversity; overall survival at 3 years was 36%, 60%, and
67% for low, intermediate, and high diversity groups, respectively (P = .019,
log-rank test). Low diversity showed a strong effect on mortality after
multivariate adjustment for other clinical predictors (transplant related
mortality: adjusted hazard ratio, 5.25; P = .014). In conclusion, the diversity
of the intestinal microbiota at engraftment is an independent predictor of
mortality in allo-HSCT recipients. These results indicate that the intestinal
microbiota may be an important factor in the success or failure in allo-HSCT.

Â© 2014 by The American Society of Hematology.

PMCID: PMC4133489
PMID: 24939656  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


3. PLoS One. 2012;7(10):e47628. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0047628. Epub 2012 Oct 29.

A characterization of the oral microbiome in allogeneic stem cell transplant
patients.

Ames NJ(1), Sulima P, Ngo T, Barb J, Munson PJ, Paster BJ, Hart TC.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Center, Nursing and Patient Care Services, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, Maryland, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: The mouth is a complex biological structure inhabited by diverse
bacterial communities. The purpose of this study is to describe the effects of
allogeneic stem cell transplantation on the oral microbiota and to examine
differences among those patients who acquired respiratory complications after
transplantation.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: All patients were consented at the National
Institutes of Health, Clinical Center. Bacterial DNA was analyzed from patients' 
oral specimens using the Human Oral Microbe Identification Microarray. The
specimens were collected from four oral sites in 45 allogeneic transplantation
patients. Specimens were collected at baseline prior to transplantation, after
transplantation at the nadir of the neutrophil count and after myeloid
engraftment. If respiratory signs and symptoms developed, additional specimens
were obtained. Patients were followed for 100 days post transplantation. Eleven
patients' specimens were subjected to further statistical analysis. Many common
bacterial genera, such as Streptococcus, Veillonella, Gemella, Granulicatella and
Camplyobacter were identified as being present before and after transplantation. 
Five of 11 patients developed respiratory complications following transplantation
and there was preliminary evidence that the oral microbiome changed in their oral
specimens. Cluster analysis and principal component analysis revealed this change
in the oral microbiota.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: After allogeneic transplantation, the oral bacterial
community's response to a new immune system was not apparent and many of the most
common core oral taxa remained unaffected. However, the oral microbiome was
affected in patients who developed respiratory signs and symptoms after
transplantation. The association related to the change in the oral microbiota and
respiratory complications after transplantation will be validated by future
studies using high throughput molecular methods.

PMCID: PMC3483166
PMID: 23144704  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Expert Rev Clin Immunol. 2015;11(7):781-3. doi: 10.1586/1744666X.2015.1043894.
Epub 2015 Jun 11.

The gut microbiome: a clinically significant player in transplantation?

Vindigni SM(1), Surawicz CM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, University of Washington
School of Medicine, 1959 NE Pacific Street, Box 356424, Seattle, WA 98195-6424,
USA.

The intestinal microbiome is critical to digestion, metabolism and protection
from pathogenic organisms. Dysbiosis, or alteration of this microbiome, can
result in Clostridium difficile infection and may play a role in other
conditions. Patients undergoing solid organ transplantation (e.g., kidney, lung, 
liver, small bowel) and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation have a shift in
the gut microbiome with a decrease in predominant organisms, a loss of bacterial 
diversity and emergence of a new dominant population. This translates into
increased morbidity and mortality with risk of infection and rejection. We
discuss the changes seen in the microbiome and its possible consequences. It may 
be important to develop strategies to restore the normal microbiome in such
patients.

PMID: 26065325  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


5. J Transl Med. 2015 Aug 23;13:275. doi: 10.1186/s12967-015-0640-8.

Gut microbiota and allogeneic transplantation.

Wang W(1,)(2,)(3), Xu S(4,)(5,)(6), Ren Z(7,)(8,)(9), Jiang J(10,)(11,)(12),
Zheng S(13,)(14,)(15).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, First Affiliated Hospital,
Zhejiang University School of Medicine, 79 Qingchun Road, Hangzhou, 310003,
Zhejiang, China. wam@zju.edu.cn. (2)Key Laboratory of Combined Multi-organ
Transplantation, Ministry of Public Health, First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang
University School of Medicine, 79 Qingchun Road, Hangzhou, 310003, Zhejiang,
China. wam@zju.edu.cn. (3)Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis and
Treatment of Infectious Diseases, First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, 79 Qingchun Road, Hangzhou, 310003, Zhejiang, China.
wam@zju.edu.cn. (4)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, First
Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, 79 Qingchun Road,
Hangzhou, 310003, Zhejiang, China. xsy118899@126.com. (5)Key Laboratory of
Combined Multi-organ Transplantation, Ministry of Public Health, First Affiliated
Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, 79 Qingchun Road, Hangzhou,
310003, Zhejiang, China. xsy118899@126.com. (6)Collaborative Innovation Center
for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, First Affiliated Hospital,
Zhejiang University School of Medicine, 79 Qingchun Road, Hangzhou, 310003,
Zhejiang, China. xsy118899@126.com. (7)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic
Surgery, First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, 79
Qingchun Road, Hangzhou, 310003, Zhejiang, China. xsy200886@126.com. (8)Key
Laboratory of Combined Multi-organ Transplantation, Ministry of Public Health,
First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, 79 Qingchun
Road, Hangzhou, 310003, Zhejiang, China. xsy200886@126.com. (9)Collaborative
Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, First
Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, 79 Qingchun Road,
Hangzhou, 310003, Zhejiang, China. xsy200886@126.com. (10)Department of
Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang
University School of Medicine, 79 Qingchun Road, Hangzhou, 310003, Zhejiang,
China. xsy200888@126.com. (11)Key Laboratory of Combined Multi-organ
Transplantation, Ministry of Public Health, First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang
University School of Medicine, 79 Qingchun Road, Hangzhou, 310003, Zhejiang,
China. xsy200888@126.com. (12)Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis and
Treatment of Infectious Diseases, First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, 79 Qingchun Road, Hangzhou, 310003, Zhejiang, China.
xsy200888@126.com. (13)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, First 
Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, 79 Qingchun Road,
Hangzhou, 310003, Zhejiang, China. shusenzheng@zju.edu.cn. (14)Key Laboratory of 
Combined Multi-organ Transplantation, Ministry of Public Health, First Affiliated
Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, 79 Qingchun Road, Hangzhou,
310003, Zhejiang, China. shusenzheng@zju.edu.cn. (15)Collaborative Innovation
Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, First Affiliated
Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, 79 Qingchun Road, Hangzhou,
310003, Zhejiang, China. shusenzheng@zju.edu.cn.

The latest high-throughput sequencing technologies show that there are more than 
1000 types of microbiota in the human gut. These microbes are not only important 
to maintain human health, but also closely related to the occurrence and
development of various diseases. With the development of transplantation
technologies, allogeneic transplantation has become an effective therapy for a
variety of end-stage diseases. However, complications after transplantation still
restrict its further development. Post-transplantation complications are closely 
associated with a host's immune system. There is also an interaction between a
person's gut microbiota and immune system. Recently, animal and human studies
have shown that gut microbial populations and diversity are altered after
allogeneic transplantations, such as liver transplantation (LT), small bowel
transplantation (SBT), kidney transplantation (KT) and hematopoietic stem cell
transplantation (HTCT). Moreover, when complications, such as infection,
rejection and graft versus host disease (GVHD) occur, gut microbial populations
and diversity present a significant dysbiosis. Several animal and clinical
studies have demonstrated that taking probiotics and prebiotics can effectively
regulate gut microbiota and reduce the incidence of complications after
transplantation. However, the role of intestinal decontamination in allogeneic
transplantation is controversial. This paper reviews gut microbial status after
transplantation and its relationship with complications. The role of
interventionÂ methods, including antibiotics, probiotics and prebiotics, in
complications after transplantation are also discussed. Further research in this 
new field needs to determine the definite relationship between gut microbial
dysbiosis and complications after transplantation. Additionally, further research
examining gut microbial intervention methods to ameliorate complications after
transplantation is warranted. A better understanding of the relationship between 
gut microbiota and complications after allogeneic transplantation may make gut
microbiota as a therapeutic target in the future.

PMCID: PMC4546814
PMID: 26298517  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Curr Opin Infect Dis. 2013 Aug;26(4):332-7. doi: 10.1097/QCO.0b013e3283630dd3.

The intestinal microbiota and susceptibility to infection in immunocompromised
patients.

Taur Y(1), Pamer EG.

Author information: 
(1)Infectious Diseases, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Sloan Kettering
Institute, New York, New York 10065, USA. taury@mskcc.org

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Many infections of immunocompromised patients originate from
the gastrointestinal tract. The pathogenesis of these infections often begins
with alteration of the intestinal microbiota. Understanding the microbiota and
how it can either cause or prevent infection is vital for the development of more
effective prevention and treatment of these infections. This article reviews and 
discusses recent work providing insight into the intestinal microbiota of these
at-risk immunocompromised patients.
RECENT FINDINGS: Studies continue to support the premise that commensal bacteria,
largely anaerobic, serve to maintain microbial stability and colonization
resistance by preventing overgrowth or domination with more pathogenic bacteria, 
through interactions within the microbial community and with the host. In
patients with immune suppression due to high-dose chemotherapy or hematopoietic
stem cell transplantation, disruption of the microbiota through antibiotics as
well as impairment of host immunity gives rise to perturbations favoring
intestinal domination by pathogenic species, leading to increased bacterial
translocation and susceptibility to systemic infection.
SUMMARY: An understanding of the intestinal microbiota and the impact of
antibiotics will help to guide our treatment of these gut-originating infections.

PMCID: PMC4485384
PMID: 23806896  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]
